In this course, students work as a team on a group IT project on industry level projects. The project ideas are often recruited fromexternal or internal (to VCC) clients. Students are exposed to all aspects of project development. Students work in a team to design,analyze, develop, test, and deliver a complete software application project.The project team could be a collaborative team involving students from different disciplines including networking or web designprograms. The selection of team members is done under guidance of the instructor and in collaboration among the students. Theintent is that the team work should resemble as much as possible to real work environment in the IT project development sector.A project team will have a project manager and/or various leads which oversea the progress in multiple fronts such as coding, artsassets, and testing. The industry practices using SDLC, agile methodology, and weekly SCRUM meetings will be followed so studentsget a taste of how to work in a team in a typical development or IT company.Students will study and employ the practical and theoretical concepts obtained in the first-year systems analysis and design coursesby building an IT system. Learners work as part of a development team on an IT problem for an external industry client. The projectwill include the production and demonstration of the functioning components of the system for each release within the deadlines setout in the project management documentation. Students will present the final product to the client. The instructor or external clientscan work as the project client/stakeholder in determining if the project has been successful.Students will also practice project management, documentation, meeting, and presentation skills. As a contributor to acomputer system development project, learners will prepare for and participate in project meetings, prepare project managementdocumentation, adapt project management processes as required, manage progress using project management techniques, andmanage the storage of project documentation. COOP replacement: This course can be replaced with a co-op term upon approval of the department head.